[docs] Add What doesn't count as a breaking change? (#32850)
mui/material-ui: docs/src/pages/versions/versions.md

## Versioning strategy

Stability ensures that reusable components and libraries, tutorials, tools, and learned practices don't become obsolete unexpectedly.
Stability is essential for the ecosystem around MUI to thrive.

This document contains the practices that are followed to provide you with a leading-edge UI library, balanced with stability, ensuring that future changes are always introduced predictably.

MUI follows [Semantic Versioning 2.0.0](https://semver.org/).
MUI version numbers have three parts: `major.minor.patch`.
The version number is incremented based on the level of change included in the release.

> - **Major releases** contain significant new features, some but minimal developer assistance is expected during the update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Major releases** contain significant new features, some developer assistance is expected during the update.
```

This may set wrong expectation :)

Author: I think that the target should always be "minimal". Meaning "the least possible". Now, "minimal" can be confused with "very small", so agree with the proposed change.

>   These releases include [breaking changes](#what-doesnt-count-as-a-breaking-change).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  These releases include breaking changes.
```

Why linking what doesn't count as breaking change on a "breaking change" link?

Author: The idea was to better define what the term means?

- **Minor releases** contain important new features.
  Minor releases are fully backward-compatible; no developer assistance is expected during the update, but you can optionally modify your apps and libraries to begin using new APIs, features, and capabilities that were added in the release.
- **Patch releases** are low risk, contain bug fixes and small new features.
  No developer assistance is expected during the update.

## What doesn't count as a breaking change?

We call "breaking changes" those that require updating your codebase when upgrading to a new version, with the exception of:

- **APIs starting with "unstable\_"**. These are provided as experimental features whose APIs we are not yet confident in.
  By releasing these with an `unstable_` prefix, we can iterate faster and get to a stable API sooner, or simply learn that we don't need the API/feature in the first place.
- **APIs documented as experimental**. Same as the above.
- **Undocumented APIs and internal data structures**. If you access internal properties, there is no warranty. You are on your own.

> - **Development warnings**. Since these don't affect production behavior, we may add new warnings or modify existing warnings in between major versions.

Reviewer 2: Maybe 

>Since these don't affect the user experience

instead of:

>Since these don't affect production behavior

Author: I think that the current wording used by React makes the scope of the impact clearer, it frames it as production vs. development.

  In fact, this is what allows us to reliably warn about upcoming breaking changes.
- **Pre-releases versions**. We provide pre-release versions as a way to test new features early, but we need the flexibility to make changes based on what we learn in the pre-release period.
  If you use these versions, note that APIs may change before the stable release.
- **Small CSS changes**. Visual design changes that have a very low probability of negatively impacting your UI are not considered breaking.

> 

Reviewer 3: What about supported node version?
We have this section on Supported platforms: https://mui.com/material-ui/getting-started/supported-platforms/#server

But node v12 is not supported anymore (v14 is in maintenance LTS) and I've opened a PR in MUI X: https://github.com/mui/mui-x/pull/4999

Side note:
> MUI supports [Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node) starting with version 12.17 (or 12.0 with --experimental-modules enabled) for server-side rendering

I don't understand how `--experimental-modules` flag is relevant here, because we provide `node` target folder that uses CommonJS (see https://unpkg.com/@mui/material@5.8.0/node/index.js)

Reviewer 4: > I don't understand how --experimental-modules flag is relevant here, because we provide node target folder that uses CommonJS

I was mostly to allow us to switch to ES modules in a minor release. But since then it's become clear that the migration strategy offered by Node is not suitable and every package should switch to ES modules in a major release.

> In general, we don't release the above changes in patch releases.

Reviewer 3: Don't we?

Reviewer 5: It depends on which of the above this sentence applies. It should probably apply all but the last point regarding CSS changes.

Author: My idea was that patch releases are ones you can most often blindly upgrade, even if you need nasty things.

Reviewer: So whenever we do change to unstable APIs it should be minor version, right?

Author: I'm removing this sentence, to use our best judgment for this, but I think that the general idea holds, using new patches should be low risk.

> - A **major** release every 12 months.

Reviewer 6: I think we're contradicting ourselves here. We say that the user can expect a major release every 12 months, but later in the release schedule, there's not one release that followed this (and v6 won't follow either). 

```suggestion
- A **major** release at least every 18 months.
```

BTW, I think the page as a whole works well for MUI X too, but perhaps we need to split it here to show the "release frequency" for MUI X.
Maybe a link to an X space?

Author: I would like to defend that 12 months sounds be our target, not 18. If hardware companies at scale like Apple can pull it off, we should be able to do something similar, even if t's only to deprecate and remove little APIs.

### Long-term support (LTS)

MUI will continue to give security updates and regressions support (for example, if there's any regression caused by Chrome, React, etc.) to the version prior to the current major until the next one is released.

## Deprecation practices

Sometimes **"breaking changes"**, such as the removal of support for select APIs and features, are necessary.
To make these transitions as easy as possible:

- The number of breaking changes is minimized, and migration tools are provided when possible (codemods).
- The deprecation policy described below is followed so that you have time to update your apps to the latest APIs and best practices.

### Deprecation policy

- Deprecated features are announced in the changelog, and when possible, with warnings at runtime.
- When a deprecation is announced, recommended update path is provided.
- Existing use of a stable API during the deprecation period is supported, so your code will keep working during that period.
- Peer dependency updates (React) that require changes to your apps are only made in a major release.

### What counts as a breaking change?

> In general, we don’t bump the major version number for changes to:

Author: Now, I think that your point is still valid, I'm doing an edit to incorporate it.

### Long-term support (LTS)

> MUI will continue to give security updates and regressions support (for example, if there's any regression caused by Chrome, React, etc.) to the version prior to the current major until the next one is released.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
MUI will continue to provide security updates and regression support (for example, if there are any regressions caused by Chrome, React, etc.) to the version prior to the current major version.
```

> MUI will continue to provide security updates and support for regressions for one version prior to the current major version, for example regressions caused by external factors such as browser updates, or changes to upstream dependencies.

Author: Is "penultimate" compatible with https://www.notion.so/mui-org/Technical-writing-7e55b517ac2e489a9ddb6d0f6dd765de#163ba56ceae240ada1eca22a0d57a714?

### Long-term support (LTS)

> MUI will continue to provide security updates and regression support (for example, if there are any regressions caused by Chrome, React, etc.) to the version prior to the current major version.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
MUI will continue to provide security updates and support for regressions for one version prior to the current major version, for example regressions caused by external factors such as browser updates, or changes to upstream dependencies.
```

### Long-term support (LTS)

MUI will continue to give security updates and regressions support (for example, if there's any regression caused by Chrome, React, etc.) to the version prior to the current major until the next one is released.

## Deprecation practices

Sometimes "breaking changes", such as the removal of support for select APIs and features, are necessary.
To make these transitions as easy as possible:

> - The number of breaking changes is minimized, and migration tools are provided when possible (codemods).

Reviewer 2: >when possible (e.g. codemods).

Author: ```suggestion
- The number of breaking changes is minimized, and migration tools are provided when possible (e.g. codemods).
```
